---
layout: post
cover: 'assets/images/cover7.jpg'
title: The Businessman & the fisherman
date:   2017-04-16 10:18:00
tags: 
subclass: 'post tag-test tag-content'
categories: 'casper'
navigation: True
logo: 'assets/images/ghost.png'
---

Attached is the syllabus and the current schedule. As you will see I tried to hit a blend of all three aspects of what we do in IS:
1. Practical Skills (totally agree with Cassie assessment there). Moreover really getting good at excel is empowering for an 18 year old who can then show people up in their internship (this used to be very true 10 years ago when I was associated with a similar course at another university… ).
2. IS concepts (see IS foundations in the schedule). Totally agree with Blake here. Important stuff, area of interest I share with Blake indeed, easy sell for me.
3. IT concepts. This is where the rub is. I agree that my job 1 is to excite them about IS and that I am trying to get more majors.  But many of this kids have never taken an Uber and dont really know what a Tesla is…. doesn’t all this “hand weaving” about some gigantic silicon valley firm get old after a while? I am afraid that it sounds like a bunch of fluff after a bit to them (in the MBA fluff is more accepted I guess :-). These are freshies, a little bit is good (e.g., I do two lectures on network effects and info econ and they *love* that… but they dont even know what an ERP is…. are they really going to appreciate Tesla strategic move in that area?

I think in an effort to make IS fun we have (sometimes) turned it into fluff… this tradeoff is clear in Merrill’s point about evals going up when you drop the IT stuff…. my sense is that there is a missing variable in this theory. That variable is “perceived practicality/applicability.” I think that’s were we heave thrown the baby with the bath water. Because it is hard to show the importance of knowing the von Neumann architecture, we have convinced ourselves that “strategic IT choices” are more important…. but these are freshman. In my class today I asked what Nescape was… no answer (fair enough) then I asked what Chrome was. They told me a browser. I asked what that was. Blank for a dozen seconds then, upon prodding, one shaky answer about being an “app to browse the Internet”…. debatable but I can work with that…. That is software they use every day (every second almost!)…  I am pretty confident they dont have the foggiest idea about what an ERP is. And when I “explain it” without being able to show it to them they will probably just tune me out.
Now, compare to this the following: We all agree that Moore’s law is important. They all know their cellphone is more powerful than the computer driving the Apollo… someone told them that Mr. Moore and his law were somewhat related … but WHY? Zero chance of even fathoming an answer to that one. But hey, just a bit of knowledge about logic gates and a hands on demonstration with it might convince you that “combinations of transistors" are really what "computer power” is all about. Now they know Moore’s law. They experienced it in a practical way. Can that be done in a class? Can that be done with a personally relevant, hands on approach? … I dont know, maybe with something like this? https://logic.ly/demo/

Cassie, assuming you got to read all the way down here, you are now convinced that Blake was not bing overly harsh when accused me of being “a little too intent on defending your own design”… in fairness, I have been know to have a hard head.

I may be guilty of hard headedness… but now that you see the syllabus and the schedule i;d love your reaction to the central question Blake raises - balance. This is a *first year required* class for all business college students (1500) for which my main goals are
1. do right by the students and offer them a high quality course that will be useful for their college and (hopefully beyond) career
2. get as many as possible clear on what IS really is - 99% of them have NO IDEA
3. get as many as will get excited about this stuff to switch and major in IS

Final note. Ironically it would be easier and more fun for me to cut out the IT basics, my textbook is "IS for Managers," not I"T concepts for freshmen" :-) However, it just feels to me that it would be a mistake not to cover the key foundational concepts as well as possible.

Thanks for you time and input. Happy to Skype as well if you are so inclined. — G